both the New York Times in the
Washington Post have new reports about
the mind of Donald Trump which is filled
with things that are not true that he
spews both publicly and privately
leaving people in the White House to
wonder how his mind actually works if we
can use the word works according to The
Times and Washington Post people who are
close to the president don't know what
he believes and doesn't believe but they
do know that he constantly says things
that are provably untrue and one of the
things that he has recently been going
back to is the access hollywood video
which shows him bragging about his
preferred methods of sexual assault
according to new reports on the
president's mental state the president
is privately telling people that the
access hollywood video is fake meaning
the voice you hear on this video
speaking as Donald Trump is not Donald
Trump and when you restore they let you
do it you can do anything whatever you
want grab them by the
those linked elegance easily no it looks
good
come on shorty hold natural action get
out of the way
good it's always good if you don't fall
out of the bus like for Gerald Ford
remember down below for the half
how are you hi no word on whether Donald
Trump believes that that was Donald
Trump who got out of that bus none of
the people around Donald Trump who heard
him say this would dare to tell him
afterwards that they actually heard him
very clearly speaking on the access
hollywood video and that they saw and
heard him apologize for every word he
said on the access hollywood video I
said it I was wrong and I apologize the
Times reports in January shortly before
his inauguration mr. Trump told a
Republican senator that he wanted to
investigate the recording that had been
that had him boasting about grabbing
women's genitals we don't think that was
my voice mr. Trump told the senator
according to a person familiar with the
conversation conservative British prime
minister Theresa May was outraged by the
president's erratic behavior today when
the president retweeted unverified
videos posted by the leader of a British
extremist group called Britain first
Prime Minister Tracy May said it is
wrong for the president to have done
this to consider what else is wrong with
the president joining us now is dr.
Lance notice of the Boston
psychoanalytic Society and Institute
he's a former assistant professor of
psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and
back with us is Eugene Robinson dr.
DotA's what are we seeing here in these
new stories about the president telling
people things that they absolutely know
to be true that are on video where they
hear his voice that's fake
That's not me even after he publicly
apologized for every word of it yes well
I think it's another example of his
being close to psychosis when he is
stressed when he says things like this
which are not in his interest he would
be better off saying I'm sorry that was
a mistake and let it go but when he goes
back and then denies reality people have
trouble understanding that
the simple explanation for it which
people don't want to hear is that he's
not in control of himself this is what
we mean when we say that somebody is
becoming psychotic or is briefly
psychotic so all of his delusional ideas
come up when he is stressed in some way
and then he loses track of reality
because it doesn't fit what he needs to
believe the problem has been that we
think of people as psychotic people as
being folks who think that they are
Napoleon and that's easy to tell and if
you're not that people think you're not
psychotic but unfortunately the world is
more complicated and people like Donald
Trump are on the border and they slip
into delusional thinking when stressed
an extremely dangerous thing naturally
for anybody especially somebody who has
been so wantonly dis concerned about the
welfare of others and willing to do
anything to promote himself so he's an
enormous present danger to us from the
standpoint of creating a nuclear war and
even from the standpoint of doing what
he can to destroy democracy as well as
attacking ethnic groups the way he's
done Gene Robinson doctored Ottis just
said something right at the beginning of
that that's so important he said that
it's not in his interest it is not in
Donald Trump's interest to say anything
that brings up the Access Hollywood
video again and and here we are running
it because of things that Donald Trump
himself has said and any other
politician would understand exactly what
the doctor said you don't he wouldn't
need a psychiatrist to tell him it is
not in your interest to do this and so
that's where this becomes so fascinating
is that is the president is constantly
doing things against his own interest
and we've just heard from the doctors
because he has no control over that yeah
you know look as you know I've written
about Donald Trump's mental health
several times I write about it again
tomorrow I'm a layman I don't have
doctored Otis's expertise certainly
though I have been
button holdin cornered and emailed by
psychiatrists and psychologists for
months but giving me their assessment of
his mental health here's what I wonder I
wonder if at some point the the sort of
old New York playboy Donald Trump who
was in the tabloids would call up page
six in the guise of some imaginary PR
guy but who was in on the joke the this
Donald Trump who created this sort of
fake reality but was in on the joke and
knew that he was doing it that's did he
at some point lose that awareness that
he at some point start believing in the
fake reality that he creates and and so
was he able to actually convince himself
but that's not him in the bus actually
convinced himself that that President
Obama was not born in Hawaii he actually
convinced himself of ridiculous things
and that's that's a really dangerous
thing for the president United States to
be living in this sort of fantasy me
doctor notice that goes straight back to
you to react to what a gene just had to
say what what is that that we're saying
well again I it's once you start out
with the idea what the understanding
that this is a very sick man he is truly
very sick then nothing is surprising in
all of these delusional thoughts are not
surprising and you know those of us
who've been saying this for a long time
have been able to correctly predict the
things that have happened and going
forward and I will not be surprised by
anything if he were to try to dissolve
the Constitution that wouldn't shock me
fire the supreme court waged nuclear war
on North Korea these things might seem
shocking but they're consistent he has
always been consistent in this once you
understand that he is about him and it's
a very deeply disturbed issue he needs
to not just that he wants to he needs to
he's not clever at all he has
to protect himself from what he sees as
a existential threat by denying reality
once you understand that everything else
follows and it's extremely dangerous so
Jean let's see if us amateurs can then
apply what we've just learned to this
which is this report from the New York
Times saying mr. Trump has used
closed-door conversations to question
the authenticity of President Barack
Obama's birth certificates so does he
need to never be wrong as that is not a
reality he needs and is that what he's
reaching for in that moment well that's
clearly a reality for for Donald Trump
and there are a hundred examples from
just from his presidency really of
things when he's presented with facts
you know he says something and it is
demonstrated that is simply not true the
crowd sighs for example at the
inauguration and he has to be he has to
be shown to be right so he had that he
had to send poor Sean Spicer out to lie
to everyone in his first appearance
before the press and insist that black
was white because Donald Trump said
black was white and he has to be right
he has this need and it's very
deep-seated I think that the doctor is
right that it's not cleverness or
deception from his point of view it's
something that he needs doctor notice I
get the feeling that when you dip into
any viewing of political pundits on
these shows talking about what Donald
Trump did today that you are probably
feeling that the analysis is missing the
point whenever it's not turning on the
notion that this is a very sick man well
I think that's true it's not that what
they're saying isn't so I mean that many
observers have accurately said that he's
ill but yes I think that if not just the
the commentators but the Congress needs
to understand all those people who are
now supporting Donald Trump are kidding
themselves if they think that this is
not extremely incapable disordered
sick individual they're kidding
themselves and no one wants this seems
to want to accept that it's someone else
pointed out that the worst possible case
for America is to have somebody who is
not grossly psychotic which everyone
would know and throw him out but close
enough with a veneer to get by that's
that's Donald Trump he's he's like the
classic you know he's like the classic
villain in the James Bond movies or any
other literature
he's villainous because of his
sociopathy psychopathy but with a
tremendous veneer which he is extremely
good at and people keep on looking at
the veneer dr. Lance notice thank you
very much for joining us once again
really important to have your input
Eugene Robinson thank you as always for
joining us really appreciate it hey
there I'm Chris Hayes from MSNBC thanks
for watching MSNBC on YouTube if you
want to keep up to date with the videos
we're putting out you can click
subscribe just below me or click over on
this list to see lots of other great
videos